README.md, before:

# K3Sharp - K3 Language Interpreter in C#

A complete C# implementation of the K3 programming language, a high-performance array programming language from the APL family.

## 📚 **Table of Contents**

- [🎯 Current Status](#-current-status-823-kexe-compatibility)
- [📊 Project Structure](#-project-structure)
- [🚀 Quick Start](#-quick-start)
- [📈 Compatibility Results](#-compatibility-results)
- [🏗️ Architecture](#️-architecture)
  - [Core Components](#core-components)
  - [Comparison Framework](#comparison-framework-)
- [✅ Implemented Features](#-implemented-features)
  - [Complete Data Types](#complete-data-types)
  - [Complete Operator System](#complete-operator-system)
  - [Complete Adverb System](#complete-adverb-system-)
  - [Complete Function System](#complete-function-system-)
  - [Dictionary System](#dictionary-system-)
- [🔧 Advanced Features](#-advanced-features)
  - [Smart Division Rules](#smart-division-rules)
  - [Type Promotion](#type-promotion)
  - [Enhanced Operators](#enhanced-operators)
  - [Underscore Ambiguity Resolution](#underscore-ambiguity-resolution-)
- [🧪 Testing](#-testing)
  - [Unit Tests](#unit-tests)
  - [Comparison Testing](#comparison-testing-)
  - [Test Results and Areas with Failures](#test-results-and-areas-with-failures)
- [📚 Documentation](#-documentation)
- [🛠️ Building and Running](#️-building-and-running)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Windows](#windows)
    - [Linux (Ubuntu/Debian)](#linux-ubuntudebian)
    - [Linux (Fedora/CentOS)](#linux-fedoracentos)
    - [macOS](#macos)
  - [Build](#build)
  - [Run](#run)
- [🎯 Recent Major Improvements](#-recent-major-improvements)
- [🔮 Next Steps](#-next-steps)
- [🤝 Contributing](#-contributing)
- [👨‍💻 Authorship](#-authorship)

---

## 🎯 **Current Status: 82.3% k.exe Compatibility!**

**Latest Achievement**: Complete comparison framework with **82.3% compatibility** with k.exe (205/264 tests matching). The interpreter is functionally complete with comprehensive testing and validation capabilities.

---

## 📊 **Project Structure**

```
K3CSharp/
├── K3CSharp/                    # Core interpreter implementation
├── K3CSharp.Tests/              # Unit tests (215 test files)
├── K3CSharp.Comparison/          # 🆕 k.exe comparison framework
│   ├── ComparisonRunner.cs      # Main comparison engine
│   ├── KInterpreterWrapper.cs   # k.exe execution wrapper
│   ├── comparison_table.txt     # Latest compatibility report
│   └── README.md                # Comparison documentation
├── run_tests.bat                # Quick test runner
└── run_comparison.bat           # 🆕 Quick comparison runner
```

---

## 🚀 **Quick Start**

### **Run K3Sharp Interpreter**
```bash
dotnet run
```

### **Run Unit Tests**
```bash
./run_tests.bat
# or
cd K3CSharp.Tests && dotnet run
```

### **Run k.exe Comparison** 🆕
```bash
./run_comparison.bat
# or
cd K3CSharp.Comparison && dotnet run
```

---

## 📈 **Compatibility Results**

### **Latest Comparison Report:**
- **Total Tests**: 264
- **✅ Matched**: 205 (82.3%)
- **❌ Differed**: 13
- **⚠️ Skipped**: 15 (long integers)
- **💥 Errors**: 31

### **Recently Fixed Issues:**
- ✅ **Drop operator**: `4 _ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7` → `4 5 6 7`
- ✅ **Take operator**: `3#1 2 3 4 5` → `1 2 3`
- ✅ **Adverb initialization**: `1 +/ 2 3 4 5` → `15`
- ✅ **Adverb scan**: `1 +\ 2 3 4 5` → `1 3 6 10 15`
- ✅ **Underscore ambiguity**: `foo_abc` (name) vs `16_ abc` (operator)

---

## 🏗️ **Architecture**

### **Core Components**
- **Lexer.cs**: Tokenizes input into tokens with underscore ambiguity resolution
- **Parser.cs**: Recursive descent parser building AST with adverb support
- **Evaluator.cs**: AST traversal and evaluation with complete operator system
- **K3Value.cs**: Type system and value operations

### **Comparison Framework** 🆕
- **KInterpreterWrapper**: Robust k.exe execution with output cleaning
- **ComparisonRunner**: Intelligent comparison with formatting equivalence detection
- **Batch Processing**: Prevents timeouts with 20-test batches
- **Long Integer Detection**: Automatically skips unsupported 64-bit tests

---

## ✅ **Implemented Features**

### **Complete Data Types**
- **Integers** (32-bit): `0`, `42`, `-7`
- **Long Integers** (64-bit): `123456789L`
- **Floating Point**: `0.0`, `0.17e03` with configurable precision
- **Characters**: `"f"`, `"hello"`
- **Symbols**: `` `f ``, `` `"a symbol" ``
- **Vectors**: `1 2 3 4`, `(1;2;3;4)`, mixed types
- **Dictionaries**: `.(`a;1);(`b;2)` with attribute support

### **Complete Operator System**
- **Arithmetic**: `+`, `-`, `*`, `%` with smart division rules
- **Comparison**: `<`, `>`, `=`, `&` (min), `|` (max)
- **Advanced**: `^` (power), `!` (mod/rotate), `_` (drop/cut)
- **Unary**: `-`, `+`, `*`, `%`, `&`, `|`, `<`, `>`, `#`, `_`, `?`, `~`, `@`, `.`
- **Type**: `4:` (type inspection), `::` (global assignment)

### **Complete Adverb System** ✅
- **Over (`/`)**: `+/ 1 2 3 4 5` → `15` (fold/reduce)
- **Scan (`\`)**: `+\ 1 2 3 4 5` → `(1;3;6;10;15)` (cumulative)
- **Each (`'`)**: `+' 1 2 3 4` → `(1;2;3;4)` (element-wise)
- **Initialization**: `1 +/ 2 3 4 5` → `15` (with initial value)

### **Complete Function System** ✅
- **Anonymous Functions**: `{[x;y] x + y}`
- **Function Assignment**: `func: {[x] x * 2}`
- **Function Application**: `func . 5` or `@` operator
- **Projections**: `add . 5` creates `{[y] 5 + y}`
- **Multi-statement**: Functions with semicolon-separated statements

### **Dictionary System** ✅
- **Creation**: `.(`a;1);(`b;2)` or `.(`a;1;attr1);(`b;2;attr2)`
- **Indexing**: `dict @ `a` → `1`, `dict @ `a.` → `attr1`
- **Multiple Keys**: `dict @ `(`a`b`)` → `(1;2)`
- **Empty**: `.()` → empty dictionary

---

## 🔧 **Advanced Features**

### **Smart Division Rules**
```k3
4 % 2           // Returns 2 (exact division → integer)
5 % 2           // Returns 2.5 (non-exact → float)
4 8 % 2         // Returns (2;4) (all exact → integer)
5 10 % 2        // Returns (2.5;5.0) (any non-exact → float)
```

### **Type Promotion**
```k3
1 + 2L          // Returns 3L (Integer + Long → Long)
1 + 1.5         // Returns 2.5 (Integer + Float → Float)
1 2 3 + 1.5     // Returns (2.5;3.5;4.5) (vector promotion)
```

### **Enhanced Operators**
```k3
// ! operator (mod/rotate)
7!3               // Returns 1 (integer mod)
1 2 3 4 ! 2      // Returns (1;0;1;0) (vector mod)
2 ! 1 2 3 4      // Returns (3;4;1;2) (vector rotation)

// _ operator (drop/cut)
4 _ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7    // Returns (4;5;6;7) (drop from start)
-4 _ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7   // Returns (0;1;2;3) (drop from end)
```

### **Underscore Ambiguity Resolution** 🆕
```k3
foo_abc          // Single identifier (name precedence)
16_ abc          // 16 _ abc (unambiguous operator)
foo16_23b        // Single identifier (complex name)
a _ b            // a _ b (unambiguous operator)
```

---

## 🧪 **Testing**

### **Unit Tests**
```bash
cd K3CSharp.Tests
dotnet run
```
- **215 test files** covering all language features
- **98.6% success rate** (212/215 tests passing)
- Comprehensive coverage of data types, operators, functions

### **Comparison Testing** 🆕
```bash
cd K3CSharp.Comparison
dotnet run
```
- **264 tests** compared against k.exe reference implementation
- **82.3% compatibility** with intelligent formatting equivalence
- **Batch processing** to prevent timeouts
- **Detailed reporting** with `comparison_table.txt`

### **Test Results and Areas with Failures**

#### **Unit Tests: 212/215 tests passing (98.6% success rate) ✅**
- **Test Suite Coverage**: 215/215 files (100% coverage)

#### **Passing Tests (212/215) - EXCELLENT!**
- All basic arithmetic operations (4/4) ✅
- All vector operations (7/7) ✅ 
- All vector indexing operations (5/5) ✅
- All function operations (15/15) ✅
- All symbol operations (8/8) ✅
- All dictionary operations (10/10) ✅
- All adverb operations (21/21) ✅
- All type operations (12/12) ✅
- All special value operations (25/25) ✅
- All overflow/underflow operations (11/12) ✅
- All vector formatting operations (5/5) ✅
- All operator precedence operations (8/8) ✅
- All parser edge cases (19/19) ✅ 
- All where operator tests (3/3) ✅
- All niladic function tests (1/1) ✅
- **Grade operators with rank errors** (2/2) ✅ - Proper rank error implementation for scalar inputs

#### **Unit Test Failures (3/215) - MINIMAL ISSUES**
1. **`overflow_long_min_minus1.k`**
   - **Issue**: Long overflow edge case - "Value was either too large or too small for an Int64"
   - **Expected**: `0IL`, **Actual**: `Error`
   - **Status**: Edge case overflow handling needs refinement

2. **`variable_scoping_nested_functions.k`**
   - **Issue**: "Dot-apply operator requires a function on the left side"
   - **Expected**: `140`, **Actual**: `Error`
   - **Status**: Nested function support not yet implemented (known limitation)

3. **`variable_scoping_global_assignment.k`**
   - **Issue**: "Undefined variable: test5"
   - **Expected**: `130`, **Actual**: `Error`
   - **Status**: Related to nested function limitation (known limitation)

#### **Comparison Test Issues (44/264)**
- **❌ Differed**: 13 tests with meaningful output differences
- **💥 Errors**: 31 tests (mostly adverb-related edge cases)
- **⚠️ Skipped**: 15 tests (long integers unsupported by 32-bit k.exe)

---

## 📚 **Documentation**

### **Main Documentation**
- This README: Project overview and quick start
- `K3CSharp.Comparison/README.md`: Comparison framework details
- `K3CSharp.Comparison/K_WRAPPER_README.md`: Wrapper API documentation
- `K3CSharp.Comparison/K_WRAPPER_SUMMARY.md`: Implementation analysis

### **REPL Help Commands**
```k3
K3> \                    // Show help overview
K3> \0                   // Learn about data types
K3> \+                   // Learn about verbs/operators
K3> \'                   // Learn about adverbs
K3> \.                   // Learn about assignment
K3> \p                   // Show current precision
K3> \p 10                // Set precision to 10 decimal places
```

---

## 🛠️ **Building and Running**

### **Prerequisites**
- **.NET 6.0 SDK** or later
- **Windows/Linux/macOS** with .NET support

#### **Platform-Specific Requirements**

**Windows:**
- Windows 10/11 or Windows Server 2016+
- Visual Studio 2022 (optional, for IDE development)
  - Download: [Visual Studio 2022 Community](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/community/)
  - Ensure ".NET desktop development" workload is selected

**Linux:**
- Ubuntu 18.04+, Debian 10+, Fedora 32+, openSUSE 15+, or equivalent
- Terminal access
- Required packages (Ubuntu/Debian): `sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y curl gnupg`
- Required packages (Fedora): `sudo dnf install curl`

**macOS:**
- macOS 10.15 (Catalina) or later
- Xcode Command Line Tools (optional): `xcode-select --install`
- Homebrew (optional, for easier package management): [brew.sh](https://brew.sh/)

### **Installation**

#### **Windows**
```powershell
# Download and install .NET 6.0 SDK
# Visit: https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/6.0

# Verify installation
dotnet --version
```

#### **Linux (Ubuntu/Debian)**
```bash
# Install .NET 6.0 SDK
curl -sSL https://dot.net/v1/dotnet-install.sh | bash /dev/stdin --channel 6.0

# Add to PATH (add to ~/.bashrc or ~/.zshrc)
export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/.dotnet

# Verify installation
dotnet --version
```

#### **Linux (Fedora/CentOS)**
```bash
# Install .NET 6.0 SDK
curl -sSL https://dot.net/v1/dotnet-install.sh | bash /dev/stdin --channel 6.0

# Add to PATH
export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/.dotnet

# Verify installation
dotnet --version
```

#### **macOS**
```bash
# Option 1: Download from Microsoft
# Visit: https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/6.0

# Option 2: Use Homebrew
brew install dotnet

# Verify installation
dotnet --version
```

### **Build**
```bash
# Clone the repository (if not already done)
git clone <repository-url>
cd ksharp

# Restore dependencies
dotnet restore

# Build the project
dotnet build

# Build for release (optimized)
dotnet build -c Release
```

### **Run**
```bash
# Interactive REPL
dotnet run

# Script execution
dotnet run script.k

# Release build
dotnet run -c Release
```

### **IDE Integration**

#### **Visual Studio (Windows)**
1. Open `K3CSharp.sln` in Visual Studio 2022
2. Build Solution (Ctrl+Shift+B)
3. Set `K3CSharp` as startup project
4. Press F5 to run with debugging
5. Press Ctrl+F5 to run without debugging

#### **Visual Studio Code (All Platforms)**
1. Install [C# extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-dotnettools.csharp)
2. Open project folder in VS Code
3. Press F5 to build and run
4. Use integrated terminal for REPL: `dotnet run`

#### **JetBrains Rider (All Platforms)**
1. Open `K3CSharp.sln` in Rider
2. Build Solution (Ctrl+F9)
3. Right-click `K3CSharp` project → Run
4. Use built-in terminal for script execution

### **Troubleshooting**

#### **Common Issues**

**"dotnet: command not found"**
- Ensure .NET SDK is installed and in PATH
- Restart terminal after installation
- Verify with `echo $PATH` (Linux/macOS) or `echo %PATH%` (Windows)

**"Cannot find project or solution file"**
- Ensure you're in the correct directory containing `.csproj` or `.sln` files
- Use `ls` (Linux/macOS) or `dir` (Windows) to verify files

**Build errors on Linux/macOS**
- Ensure all required packages are installed
- Try `dotnet clean` followed by `dotnet build`
- Check file permissions: `chmod +x *.sh` (if using shell scripts)

**Performance issues**
- Use release build: `dotnet run -c Release`
- For large datasets, consider increasing memory: `dotnet run --environment DOTNET_GCHeapCount=1`

#### **Platform-Specific Tips**

**Windows PowerShell:**
```powershell
# Set execution policy for scripts (if needed)
Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope CurrentUser
```

**Linux/macOS Shell:**
```bash
# Make script files executable
chmod +x *.sh

# Use bash explicitly if needed
bash script.sh
```

**macOS Specific:**
```bash
# If using zsh (default on modern macOS)
echo 'export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/.dotnet' >> ~/.zshrc
source ~/.zshrc
```

---

## 🎯 **Recent Major Improvements**

### **Comparison Framework** 🆕
- **Complete k.exe wrapper** with robust error handling
- **Intelligent comparison** with formatting equivalence detection
- **Batch processing** to prevent timeouts
- **Long integer detection** for 32-bit k.exe compatibility
- **Comprehensive reporting** with detailed statistics

### **Critical Parser Fixes**
- **Underscore ambiguity resolution** with name precedence
- **Take/Drop operators**: `#` and `_` working correctly
- **Adverb initialization**: `1 +/ 2 3 4 5` → `15`
- **Enhanced error handling** and recovery

### **Enhanced Compatibility**
- **82.3% k.exe compatibility** (up from previous issues)
- **Formatting equivalence** for semicolon/newline differences
- **Special long integer detection**: `0IL`, `0NL`, `123L`
- **Output cleaning** for k.exe licensing information

---

## 🔮 **Next Steps**

### **High Priority**
1. **Resolve remaining 13 differing tests** for higher compatibility
2. **Fix 31 error tests** (mostly adverb-related edge cases)
3. **Improve error messages** and user feedback

### **Medium Priority**
1. **Performance optimizations** for large datasets
2. **Symbol table optimization** with reference equality
3. **Enhanced REPL features** (history, line editing)

### **Low Priority**
1. **Documentation expansion** with more examples
2. **IDE integration improvements**
3. **Additional mathematical functions**

---

## 🤝 **Contributing**

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Add tests for new functionality
4. Ensure all tests pass
5. Run comparison framework to verify k.exe compatibility
6. Submit a pull request

---

## 👨‍💻 **Authorship**

**Development Approach**
- **Test-Driven Development**: Every feature includes comprehensive test coverage
- **Iterative Implementation**: Features built incrementally with validation
- **Code Quality**: Clean, maintainable C# code following best practices
- **Advanced Features**: Function projections, adverb chaining, and hybrid function storage

**Project Lead**: ERufian
- **Architecture Design**: Complete K3 language implementation in C#
- **Core Implementation**: Lexer, Parser, Evaluator, and Type System
- **Testing Framework**: Comprehensive unit tests and k.exe comparison system
- **Documentation**: Complete API documentation and user guides

---

**🚀 Try it out: `dotnet run` and start exploring K3!**

Commit message:

Update authorship section to match old README format
- Replace detailed project lead credits with simpler authorship from old README
- Credit SWE-1.5 as implementation author and Eusebio Rufian-Zilbermann as specification provider
- Keep the development approach section which was the same in both versions
- Maintain clean, concise authorship format as requested

README.md, after:

# K3Sharp - K3 Language Interpreter in C#

A complete C# implementation of the K3 programming language, a high-performance array programming language from the APL family.

## 📚 **Table of Contents**

- [🎯 Current Status](#-current-status-823-kexe-compatibility)
- [📊 Project Structure](#-project-structure)
- [🚀 Quick Start](#-quick-start)
- [📈 Compatibility Results](#-compatibility-results)
- [🏗️ Architecture](#️-architecture)
  - [Core Components](#core-components)
  - [Comparison Framework](#comparison-framework-)
- [✅ Implemented Features](#-implemented-features)
  - [Complete Data Types](#complete-data-types)
  - [Complete Operator System](#complete-operator-system)
  - [Complete Adverb System](#complete-adverb-system-)
  - [Complete Function System](#complete-function-system-)
  - [Dictionary System](#dictionary-system-)
- [🔧 Advanced Features](#-advanced-features)
  - [Smart Division Rules](#smart-division-rules)
  - [Type Promotion](#type-promotion)
  - [Enhanced Operators](#enhanced-operators)
  - [Underscore Ambiguity Resolution](#underscore-ambiguity-resolution-)
- [🧪 Testing](#-testing)
  - [Unit Tests](#unit-tests)
  - [Comparison Testing](#comparison-testing-)
  - [Test Results and Areas with Failures](#test-results-and-areas-with-failures)
- [📚 Documentation](#-documentation)
- [🛠️ Building and Running](#️-building-and-running)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Windows](#windows)
    - [Linux (Ubuntu/Debian)](#linux-ubuntudebian)
    - [Linux (Fedora/CentOS)](#linux-fedoracentos)
    - [macOS](#macos)
  - [Build](#build)
  - [Run](#run)
- [🎯 Recent Major Improvements](#-recent-major-improvements)
- [🔮 Next Steps](#-next-steps)
- [🤝 Contributing](#-contributing)
- [👨‍💻 Authorship](#-authorship)

---

## 🎯 **Current Status: 82.3% k.exe Compatibility!**

**Latest Achievement**: Complete comparison framework with **82.3% compatibility** with k.exe (205/264 tests matching). The interpreter is functionally complete with comprehensive testing and validation capabilities.

---

## 📊 **Project Structure**

```
K3CSharp/
├── K3CSharp/                    # Core interpreter implementation
├── K3CSharp.Tests/              # Unit tests (215 test files)
├── K3CSharp.Comparison/          # 🆕 k.exe comparison framework
│   ├── ComparisonRunner.cs      # Main comparison engine
│   ├── KInterpreterWrapper.cs   # k.exe execution wrapper
│   ├── comparison_table.txt     # Latest compatibility report
│   └── README.md                # Comparison documentation
├── run_tests.bat                # Quick test runner
└── run_comparison.bat           # 🆕 Quick comparison runner
```

---

## 🚀 **Quick Start**

### **Run K3Sharp Interpreter**
```bash
dotnet run
```

### **Run Unit Tests**
```bash
./run_tests.bat
# or
cd K3CSharp.Tests && dotnet run
```

### **Run k.exe Comparison** 🆕
```bash
./run_comparison.bat
# or
cd K3CSharp.Comparison && dotnet run
```

---

## 📈 **Compatibility Results**

### **Latest Comparison Report:**
- **Total Tests**: 264
- **✅ Matched**: 205 (82.3%)
- **❌ Differed**: 13
- **⚠️ Skipped**: 15 (long integers)
- **💥 Errors**: 31

### **Recently Fixed Issues:**
- ✅ **Drop operator**: `4 _ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7` → `4 5 6 7`
- ✅ **Take operator**: `3#1 2 3 4 5` → `1 2 3`
- ✅ **Adverb initialization**: `1 +/ 2 3 4 5` → `15`
- ✅ **Adverb scan**: `1 +\ 2 3 4 5` → `1 3 6 10 15`
- ✅ **Underscore ambiguity**: `foo_abc` (name) vs `16_ abc` (operator)

---

## 🏗️ **Architecture**

### **Core Components**
- **Lexer.cs**: Tokenizes input into tokens with underscore ambiguity resolution
- **Parser.cs**: Recursive descent parser building AST with adverb support
- **Evaluator.cs**: AST traversal and evaluation with complete operator system
- **K3Value.cs**: Type system and value operations

### **Comparison Framework** 🆕
- **KInterpreterWrapper**: Robust k.exe execution with output cleaning
- **ComparisonRunner**: Intelligent comparison with formatting equivalence detection
- **Batch Processing**: Prevents timeouts with 20-test batches
- **Long Integer Detection**: Automatically skips unsupported 64-bit tests

---

## ✅ **Implemented Features**

### **Complete Data Types**
- **Integers** (32-bit): `0`, `42`, `-7`
- **Long Integers** (64-bit): `123456789L`
- **Floating Point**: `0.0`, `0.17e03` with configurable precision
- **Characters**: `"f"`, `"hello"`
- **Symbols**: `` `f ``, `` `"a symbol" ``
- **Vectors**: `1 2 3 4`, `(1;2;3;4)`, mixed types
- **Dictionaries**: `.(`a;1);(`b;2)` with attribute support

### **Complete Operator System**
- **Arithmetic**: `+`, `-`, `*`, `%` with smart division rules
- **Comparison**: `<`, `>`, `=`, `&` (min), `|` (max)
- **Advanced**: `^` (power), `!` (mod/rotate), `_` (drop/cut)
- **Unary**: `-`, `+`, `*`, `%`, `&`, `|`, `<`, `>`, `#`, `_`, `?`, `~`, `@`, `.`
- **Type**: `4:` (type inspection), `::` (global assignment)

### **Complete Adverb System** ✅
- **Over (`/`)**: `+/ 1 2 3 4 5` → `15` (fold/reduce)
- **Scan (`\`)**: `+\ 1 2 3 4 5` → `(1;3;6;10;15)` (cumulative)
- **Each (`'`)**: `+' 1 2 3 4` → `(1;2;3;4)` (element-wise)
- **Initialization**: `1 +/ 2 3 4 5` → `15` (with initial value)

### **Complete Function System** ✅
- **Anonymous Functions**: `{[x;y] x + y}`
- **Function Assignment**: `func: {[x] x * 2}`
- **Function Application**: `func . 5` or `@` operator
- **Projections**: `add . 5` creates `{[y] 5 + y}`
- **Multi-statement**: Functions with semicolon-separated statements

### **Dictionary System** ✅
- **Creation**: `.(`a;1);(`b;2)` or `.(`a;1;attr1);(`b;2;attr2)`
- **Indexing**: `dict @ `a` → `1`, `dict @ `a.` → `attr1`
- **Multiple Keys**: `dict @ `(`a`b`)` → `(1;2)`
- **Empty**: `.()` → empty dictionary

---

## 🔧 **Advanced Features**

### **Smart Division Rules**
```k3
4 % 2           // Returns 2 (exact division → integer)
5 % 2           // Returns 2.5 (non-exact → float)
4 8 % 2         // Returns (2;4) (all exact → integer)
5 10 % 2        // Returns (2.5;5.0) (any non-exact → float)
```

### **Type Promotion**
```k3
1 + 2L          // Returns 3L (Integer + Long → Long)
1 + 1.5         // Returns 2.5 (Integer + Float → Float)
1 2 3 + 1.5     // Returns (2.5;3.5;4.5) (vector promotion)
```

### **Enhanced Operators**
```k3
// ! operator (mod/rotate)
7!3               // Returns 1 (integer mod)
1 2 3 4 ! 2      // Returns (1;0;1;0) (vector mod)
2 ! 1 2 3 4      // Returns (3;4;1;2) (vector rotation)

// _ operator (drop/cut)
4 _ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7    // Returns (4;5;6;7) (drop from start)
-4 _ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7   // Returns (0;1;2;3) (drop from end)
```

### **Underscore Ambiguity Resolution** 🆕
```k3
foo_abc          // Single identifier (name precedence)
16_ abc          // 16 _ abc (unambiguous operator)
foo16_23b        // Single identifier (complex name)
a _ b            // a _ b (unambiguous operator)
```

---

## 🧪 **Testing**

### **Unit Tests**
```bash
cd K3CSharp.Tests
dotnet run
```
- **215 test files** covering all language features
- **98.6% success rate** (212/215 tests passing)
- Comprehensive coverage of data types, operators, functions

### **Comparison Testing** 🆕
```bash
cd K3CSharp.Comparison
dotnet run
```
- **264 tests** compared against k.exe reference implementation
- **82.3% compatibility** with intelligent formatting equivalence
- **Batch processing** to prevent timeouts
- **Detailed reporting** with `comparison_table.txt`

### **Test Results and Areas with Failures**

#### **Unit Tests: 212/215 tests passing (98.6% success rate) ✅**
- **Test Suite Coverage**: 215/215 files (100% coverage)

#### **Passing Tests (212/215) - EXCELLENT!**
- All basic arithmetic operations (4/4) ✅
- All vector operations (7/7) ✅ 
- All vector indexing operations (5/5) ✅
- All function operations (15/15) ✅
- All symbol operations (8/8) ✅
- All dictionary operations (10/10) ✅
- All adverb operations (21/21) ✅
- All type operations (12/12) ✅
- All special value operations (25/25) ✅
- All overflow/underflow operations (11/12) ✅
- All vector formatting operations (5/5) ✅
- All operator precedence operations (8/8) ✅
- All parser edge cases (19/19) ✅ 
- All where operator tests (3/3) ✅
- All niladic function tests (1/1) ✅
- **Grade operators with rank errors** (2/2) ✅ - Proper rank error implementation for scalar inputs

#### **Unit Test Failures (3/215) - MINIMAL ISSUES**
1. **`overflow_long_min_minus1.k`**
   - **Issue**: Long overflow edge case - "Value was either too large or too small for an Int64"
   - **Expected**: `0IL`, **Actual**: `Error`
   - **Status**: Edge case overflow handling needs refinement

2. **`variable_scoping_nested_functions.k`**
   - **Issue**: "Dot-apply operator requires a function on the left side"
   - **Expected**: `140`, **Actual**: `Error`
   - **Status**: Nested function support not yet implemented (known limitation)

3. **`variable_scoping_global_assignment.k`**
   - **Issue**: "Undefined variable: test5"
   - **Expected**: `130`, **Actual**: `Error`
   - **Status**: Related to nested function limitation (known limitation)

#### **Comparison Test Issues (44/264)**
- **❌ Differed**: 13 tests with meaningful output differences
- **💥 Errors**: 31 tests (mostly adverb-related edge cases)
- **⚠️ Skipped**: 15 tests (long integers unsupported by 32-bit k.exe)

---

## 📚 **Documentation**

### **Main Documentation**
- This README: Project overview and quick start
- `K3CSharp.Comparison/README.md`: Comparison framework details
- `K3CSharp.Comparison/K_WRAPPER_README.md`: Wrapper API documentation
- `K3CSharp.Comparison/K_WRAPPER_SUMMARY.md`: Implementation analysis

### **REPL Help Commands**
```k3
K3> \                    // Show help overview
K3> \0                   // Learn about data types
K3> \+                   // Learn about verbs/operators
K3> \'                   // Learn about adverbs
K3> \.                   // Learn about assignment
K3> \p                   // Show current precision
K3> \p 10                // Set precision to 10 decimal places
```

---

## 🛠️ **Building and Running**

### **Prerequisites**
- **.NET 6.0 SDK** or later
- **Windows/Linux/macOS** with .NET support

#### **Platform-Specific Requirements**

**Windows:**
- Windows 10/11 or Windows Server 2016+
- Visual Studio 2022 (optional, for IDE development)
  - Download: [Visual Studio 2022 Community](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/community/)
  - Ensure ".NET desktop development" workload is selected

**Linux:**
- Ubuntu 18.04+, Debian 10+, Fedora 32+, openSUSE 15+, or equivalent
- Terminal access
- Required packages (Ubuntu/Debian): `sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y curl gnupg`
- Required packages (Fedora): `sudo dnf install curl`

**macOS:**
- macOS 10.15 (Catalina) or later
- Xcode Command Line Tools (optional): `xcode-select --install`
- Homebrew (optional, for easier package management): [brew.sh](https://brew.sh/)

### **Installation**

#### **Windows**
```powershell
# Download and install .NET 6.0 SDK
# Visit: https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/6.0

# Verify installation
dotnet --version
```

#### **Linux (Ubuntu/Debian)**
```bash
# Install .NET 6.0 SDK
curl -sSL https://dot.net/v1/dotnet-install.sh | bash /dev/stdin --channel 6.0

# Add to PATH (add to ~/.bashrc or ~/.zshrc)
export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/.dotnet

# Verify installation
dotnet --version
```

#### **Linux (Fedora/CentOS)**
```bash
# Install .NET 6.0 SDK
curl -sSL https://dot.net/v1/dotnet-install.sh | bash /dev/stdin --channel 6.0

# Add to PATH
export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/.dotnet

# Verify installation
dotnet --version
```

#### **macOS**
```bash
# Option 1: Download from Microsoft
# Visit: https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/6.0

# Option 2: Use Homebrew
brew install dotnet

# Verify installation
dotnet --version
```

### **Build**
```bash
# Clone the repository (if not already done)
git clone <repository-url>
cd ksharp

# Restore dependencies
dotnet restore

# Build the project
dotnet build

# Build for release (optimized)
dotnet build -c Release
```

### **Run**
```bash
# Interactive REPL
dotnet run

# Script execution
dotnet run script.k

# Release build
dotnet run -c Release
```

### **IDE Integration**

#### **Visual Studio (Windows)**
1. Open `K3CSharp.sln` in Visual Studio 2022
2. Build Solution (Ctrl+Shift+B)
3. Set `K3CSharp` as startup project
4. Press F5 to run with debugging
5. Press Ctrl+F5 to run without debugging

#### **Visual Studio Code (All Platforms)**
1. Install [C# extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-dotnettools.csharp)
2. Open project folder in VS Code
3. Press F5 to build and run
4. Use integrated terminal for REPL: `dotnet run`

#### **JetBrains Rider (All Platforms)**
1. Open `K3CSharp.sln` in Rider
2. Build Solution (Ctrl+F9)
3. Right-click `K3CSharp` project → Run
4. Use built-in terminal for script execution

### **Troubleshooting**

#### **Common Issues**

**"dotnet: command not found"**
- Ensure .NET SDK is installed and in PATH
- Restart terminal after installation
- Verify with `echo $PATH` (Linux/macOS) or `echo %PATH%` (Windows)

**"Cannot find project or solution file"**
- Ensure you're in the correct directory containing `.csproj` or `.sln` files
- Use `ls` (Linux/macOS) or `dir` (Windows) to verify files

**Build errors on Linux/macOS**
- Ensure all required packages are installed
- Try `dotnet clean` followed by `dotnet build`
- Check file permissions: `chmod +x *.sh` (if using shell scripts)

**Performance issues**
- Use release build: `dotnet run -c Release`
- For large datasets, consider increasing memory: `dotnet run --environment DOTNET_GCHeapCount=1`

#### **Platform-Specific Tips**

**Windows PowerShell:**
```powershell
# Set execution policy for scripts (if needed)
Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope CurrentUser
```

**Linux/macOS Shell:**
```bash
# Make script files executable
chmod +x *.sh

# Use bash explicitly if needed
bash script.sh
```

**macOS Specific:**
```bash
# If using zsh (default on modern macOS)
echo 'export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/.dotnet' >> ~/.zshrc
source ~/.zshrc
```

---

## 🎯 **Recent Major Improvements**

### **Comparison Framework** 🆕
- **Complete k.exe wrapper** with robust error handling
- **Intelligent comparison** with formatting equivalence detection
- **Batch processing** to prevent timeouts
- **Long integer detection** for 32-bit k.exe compatibility
- **Comprehensive reporting** with detailed statistics

### **Critical Parser Fixes**
- **Underscore ambiguity resolution** with name precedence
- **Take/Drop operators**: `#` and `_` working correctly
- **Adverb initialization**: `1 +/ 2 3 4 5` → `15`
- **Enhanced error handling** and recovery

### **Enhanced Compatibility**
- **82.3% k.exe compatibility** (up from previous issues)
- **Formatting equivalence** for semicolon/newline differences
- **Special long integer detection**: `0IL`, `0NL`, `123L`
- **Output cleaning** for k.exe licensing information

---

## 🔮 **Next Steps**

### **High Priority**
1. **Resolve remaining 13 differing tests** for higher compatibility
2. **Fix 31 error tests** (mostly adverb-related edge cases)
3. **Improve error messages** and user feedback

### **Medium Priority**
1. **Performance optimizations** for large datasets
2. **Symbol table optimization** with reference equality
3. **Enhanced REPL features** (history, line editing)

### **Low Priority**
1. **Documentation expansion** with more examples
2. **IDE integration improvements**
3. **Additional mathematical functions**

---

## 🤝 **Contributing**

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Add tests for new functionality
4. Ensure all tests pass
5. Run comparison framework to verify k.exe compatibility
6. Submit a pull request

---

## 👨‍💻 **Authorship**

This K3 interpreter implementation was written by **SWE-1.5** based on a specification, prompts, and comments provided by **Eusebio Rufian-Zilbermann**.

### Development Approach
- **Test-Driven Development**: Every feature includes comprehensive test coverage
- **Iterative Implementation**: Features built incrementally with validation
- **Code Quality**: Clean, maintainable C# code following best practices
- **Advanced Features**: Function projections, adverb chaining, and hybrid function storage

---

**🚀 Try it out: `dotnet run` and start exploring K3!**
